README.md, before:

# Flashcard learning web application
This is the backend API for a flashcard learning web application. 
It provides endpoints for user authentication, flashcard set management, topic handling, and AI-assisted flashcard generation. 
It is part of the codebase for PERN stack, utilising PostgreSQL through Sequelize ORM, Passport for authentication with JWT, and OpenAI API.

## Features

- User `authentication (register, login, logout)
- Flashcard set CRUD operations
- Topic management
- AI-assisted flashcard generation
- Protected and public routes

## Technologies Used

- Node.js
- Express.js
- Passport.js for authentication
- PostgreSQL 
- Sequelize ORM 

## API Routes
<details>
<summary>API Routes</summary>

### Authentication Routes

- `POST /api/auth/register`: Register a new user
- `POST /api/auth/login`: User login
- `POST /api/auth/logout`: User logout
- `GET /api/auth/protected`: Test protected route
- `GET /api/auth/get-users`: Get all users (likely admin only)

### Flashcard Set Routes

- `GET /api/ai/flashcard-sets/:id`: Get a specific flashcard set
- `GET /api/ai/dashboard/flashcard-sets`: Get user's flashcard sets
- `POST /api/ai/flashcard-sets`: Create a new flashcard set with flashcards
- `PUT /api/ai/flashcard-sets/:id/update`: Update a flashcard set
- `DELETE /api/ai/flashcard-sets/:id`: Delete a flashcard set

### Topic Routes

- `POST /api/ai/topics`: Create a new topic
- `GET /api/ai/topics/:id`: Get a specific topic
- `GET /api/ai/topics`: Get all topics
- `GET /api/ai/topics-dashboard/:id`: Get topic dashboard
- `DELETE /api/ai/topics/:id`: Delete a topic

### Flashcard Routes

- `POST /api/ai/flashcards`: Generate new flashcards using AI
- `GET /api/ai/flashcards/:id`: Get a specific flashcard
</details>


## Setup and Installation

1. Clone the repository
2. Install dependencies: `npm install`
3. Set up environment variables in a `.env` file
4. Initialize the database
5. Start the server: `npm start`

## Environment Variables
<details>
<summary>Environment Variables</summary>


Default values assued in `./src/constants/index.js`

- `NODE_ENV`: Set to 'production' for production environment
- `SERVER_PORT`: Port number for the server
- `CLIENT_URL`: URL of the frontend client for CORS
- 
- `DB_ADDRESS`: Address to the database
- `DB_PORT`: Port to the database
- `DB_SUPERUSER`: Superuser for database
- `DB_PASSWORD`: Password for database

- `JWT_SECRET`: Secret for JWT

- `OPENAI_API_KEYY`: API KEY to OpenAI(Spelling due to overriding with local key.)
- `OPENAI_API_URL`: URL for OPENAI if different or changed

</details>

## Authentication

The API uses JSON Web Tokens (JWT) for authentication. Protected routes require a valid JWT to be included in the Authorization header of the request.

## Error Handling

The API includes centralized error handling middleware to process and return appropriate error responses.

## AI Integration

The API includes routes for AI-assisted flashcard generation. The specific AI model and integration details are implemented in the `./src/controllers/ai.js`.

Commit message:

Deployment support (#4)
* Early mvp (#1)

* Refactor code

* Update README

* Update license

* Update README

* Update README

* Prepare for dpeloyment

* Rseolve missing dependencies

* Update settings for deployment

* Update JWT cross-site policy

* Update cookie domain

* Update cookie policy for jwt

* Update README

* Add support for simlutaneous local and deployed development

README.md, after:

# Flashcard learning web application
This is the backend API for a flashcard learning web application. 
It provides endpoints for user authentication, flashcard set management, topic handling, and AI-assisted flashcard generation. 
It is part of the codebase for PERN stack, utilising PostgreSQL through Sequelize ORM, Passport for authentication with JWT, and OpenAI API.

## Features

- User `authentication (register, login, logout)
- Flashcard set CRUD operations
- Topic management
- AI-assisted flashcard generation
- Protected and public routes

## Technologies Used

- Node.js
- Express.js
- Passport.js for authentication
- PostgreSQL 
- Sequelize ORM 

## API Routes
<details>
<summary>API Routes</summary>

### Authentication Routes

- `POST /api/auth/register`: Register a new user
- `POST /api/auth/login`: User login
- `POST /api/auth/logout`: User logout
- `GET /api/auth/protected`: Test protected route
- `GET /api/auth/get-users`: Get all users (likely admin only)

### Flashcard Set Routes

- `GET /api/ai/flashcard-sets/:id`: Get a specific flashcard set
- `GET /api/ai/dashboard/flashcard-sets`: Get user's flashcard sets
- `POST /api/ai/flashcard-sets`: Create a new flashcard set with flashcards
- `PUT /api/ai/flashcard-sets/:id/update`: Update a flashcard set
- `DELETE /api/ai/flashcard-sets/:id`: Delete a flashcard set

### Topic Routes

- `POST /api/ai/topics`: Create a new topic
- `GET /api/ai/topics/:id`: Get a specific topic
- `GET /api/ai/topics`: Get all topics
- `GET /api/ai/topics-dashboard/:id`: Get topic dashboard
- `DELETE /api/ai/topics/:id`: Delete a topic

### Flashcard Routes

- `POST /api/ai/flashcards`: Generate new flashcards using AI
- `GET /api/ai/flashcards/:id`: Get a specific flashcard
</details>


## Setup and Installation

1. Clone the repository
2. Install dependencies: `npm install`
3. Set up environment variables in a `.env` file
4. Initialize the database
5. Start the server: `npm start`

## Environment Variables
<details>
<summary>Environment Variables</summary>


Most of the default values assued in `./src/constants/index.js`

- `PROJECT_NAME`: Name branding for the project
- `NODE_ENV`: Set to 'production' for production environment
- `SERVER_PORT`: Port number for the server
- `CLIENT_URL`: URL of the frontend client for CORS
  
- `DB_ADDRESS`: Address to the database
- `DB_PORT`: Port to the database
- `DB_SUPERUSER`: Superuser for database
- `DB_PASSWORD`: Password for database
- `DB_URL`: URL for the database, when deploying - Overwrites local settings when present

- `JWT_SECRET`: Secret for JWT
- `COOKIE_DOMAIN`: For JWT Security, when domain is not on public suffix list.

- `OPENAI_API_KEYY`: API KEY to OpenAI(Spelling due to overriding with local key.)
- `OPENAI_API_URL`: URL for OPENAI if different or changed

</details>

## Authentication

The API uses JSON Web Tokens (JWT) for authentication. Protected routes require a valid JWT to be included in the Authorization header of the request.

## Error Handling

The API includes centralized error handling middleware to process and return appropriate error responses.

## AI Integration

The API includes routes for AI-assisted flashcard generation. The specific AI model and integration details are implemented in the `./src/controllers/ai.js`.
